- It's more than nine months headed back
to earth Right now let's bring
in our former NASA astronaut,
Jose Hernandez and biomedical engineer Dr.
John Jaquis. Thank you so much.
Doctor, I wanna start you with you first.
Our team has big curiosities over
what the medical challenges
will look like once they splash
down and they were able to get them out
to medical treatment.
What is all of this going to look like?
We're told that they'll be
carried out on stretchers
- Usually that's a for sure thing.
You lose a lot of muscle mass,
you lose a lot of bone density.
Also compromises, tendons
and ligaments, especially
over the extended period
of time that they've been up there.
So they will not be in tip
top shape when they get
off the space vehicle.
They will need to focus
on rehabilitative exercise
and proper nutrition.
So there's, there's two things
that are really compromising
them while they're up there is,
number one, your digestion
doesn't work very well when you
don't have the assistance of gravity.
So the gravity field
of the earth pulls food
through your system and
when you're a little kid
or you're around little kids
and they're on a jungle gym
after they eat and they
don't feel so well Yeah, it's
'cause they need things pushing down.
- Yeah.
- On their, on their digestive system.
And then the other thing
is, without gravity,
without the mechanical
tension on musculature
and on bone, bone
density starts to go down
and they lose a lot of muscle mass.
Yeah. And the glycogen
stores that are needed
to be held within the muscular tissue.
- Incredibly important information.
And to Jose, our astronaut
now please do tell us
what they must be thinking
and feeling as they make
their way back to earth.
- Well the first thing they
have to do is they have to do a,
a fluid load
because well being up in
space, they don't need
as much fluid in their
body as they do in one G.
And so you have to ingest lots of fluid,
whether it's chicken consummate
Gatorade or whatever.
But you have to have lots of fluid.
And as John pointed out, you know,
when I came back from space
and my first two words outta
my mouth was, gravity sucks.
Ah. Because, because
you're adjusting to gravity
and it's not fun.
And you and these guys have
been up there for nine months.
They got about two months
of of physical therapy
so they can come back
and be normal here in a one G environment.
- Doctor, we're gonna
have to leave it there.
We're tight on time
'cause of breaking news,
but if you could just sort of tell us
what life will be like after them.
Our team was talking this
morning about we can learn from
this, there are certain, you
know, life extending things
that we learn from zero gravity
environments, final thought.
Absolutely.
- So they go through a
period of degradation
by not having the benefit
of the earth's gravitational field.
It is going to take them
months to rehabilitate even
to be back to a state of normalcy.
- Yeah. - And then they're
probably gonna work hard to get
to a state of high performance
as astronauts always do.
- Yeah. It is really important
to cover this aspect of it.
'cause we think there's
gonna be this big celebration
but they are gonna be rushed off
to get medical treatment right away.
We do know that. Thank you
so much to both of you.
Appreciate those perspectives. Thank you.
We'll see you again soon. Thank John.